it's a five-day competition and what we
do is we taste all the wines in the
first three days we bring back roughly
twenty to twenty-two percent of the
wines we taste all those wines in the
next day and a half and then we bring
back twenty percent of those wines and
we have a hard look at those to
establish whether or not they would get
our top award which is a platinum or
otherwise all the wines are scored on
the 100 point system and we award the
bronze silver and gold I don't want to
say that we're tougher stingy but you
know we don't give out the maximum
amount of awards because we're really
looking for excellence we're trying to
establish a benchmark for Canadian wines
we've whittled down our judges over 14
years there's a highly professional
group they're trained very well and they
taste wine every day we ask them to
taste no more than 80 or 90 wines in the
in the first few rounds that's a very
low number compared to other
competitions
in the second and third rounds the
numbers are reduced again so really the
daily workload is not that heavy and
it's spread across all the panels so I
think we're getting really good results
from that I would say this one is if not
the best but definitely one of the best
wine competitions in the world in terms
of the quality of the judges the
fairness to the wines the pacing if you
give your judges too many wines per day
it's not fair to the wine we're not able
to actually pay attention to each and
every wine and focus and pick out wines
that really deserve our attention and
should be getting medals
it's easy to miss wines that are very
delicate and subtle when you taste over
a hundred wines a day and one of the
things about this competition is you
never taste more than a hundred wine
and usually no more than 70 or 80 wines
a day so the paces is excellent well all
our people are international in the
first six months of this year our people
were in about a hundred and twenty plus
separate Appalachians around the world
so they're on the move and they're very
up-to-date on what's going on globally
we have a mix of retail buyers
journalists wine writer tasters and Saum
so it's a fabulous mix of people it's
important that the the tapestry is so
rich and varied we have really really
strong tasters across the board but when
you have so many A's and retail people
and writers media people people who
spend time on television it just brings
a dynamic that's unmatched anywhere in
this country
judging wise the panel is tip-top it's
been honed over the years and it's as
good as it gets
our judges never see the bottles it's a
blind tasting but everybody in the back
room sees every bottle so there are no
mistakes we don't put things in brown
bags we have a series of checks that any
single entries probably check 12 to 15
times before it's in the glass in front
of the judge everybody working in the
back room knows what's going on knows
what the flight is knows where the wine
should be and there's a lot of series of
checks and balances meanwhile when you
cross the wall into the judges room that
wine arrives in a glass with a flight
number and that's it you know in a from
one to ten so the judges all they know
is that they're tasting Riesling we try
to minimize every mistake in the back
room so that when that glass gets to the
table the judges only have to decide
which are the best wines in that plate
we give them roughly about three minutes
and wine we try to keep the pace moving
so if they're tasting say eight wines
that that tasting is over in about 24
minutes then there's a then there is an
exchange of scores on a sheet so that
everybody can see what the scores are
for wine won and if there's a wine out
of whack whether it's higher or lower
then there's an ensuing discussion and
the people that were either high or low
have to
their score so and if you cannot defend
your score then you've got to move
towards the other you know the other
score so it helps us to eliminate you
know mistakes in the judging it's very
hard to taste a hundred wines and not
make a mistake it's not human you know
you miss a wine sometimes you're you
know you you you lose your concentration
that's why we have four or five people
at the table that's the whole point of
course we want all the wines to be
served at the perfect temperature so we
get the room down and we get the bottles
cool so that they can always warm up
over on the judges side but you know
like most Canadians we always say that
they drink their white wines too cold in
their red wines too warm we do not do
that we want that wine to be in the most
perfect space and time that it can be
when it's in front of the judge then it
gets their attention and everything's
perfect we can judge that wine and so we
go to a lot of effort to make sure that
that wine is in the right plate at the
right temperature at the right time so
that it can be analyzed by those judges
we're not just throwing stuff out there
well in the earlier rounds normally
three or four people would judge a wine
and then if that wine gets on to the
second round then it could be spread
across two panels so that would jump the
numbers between six and eight and if it
gets into the final day there's a good
possibility it would be spread to all
fifteen or sixteen judges so it's tasted
three times if you add up all the judges
maybe it's had 22 or 25 people look at
that wine over the five days before we
publish the results in the end it comes
down to results I feel so good about
what the public is going to see that you
can bet on these you can go to your
local store or winery and when you see a
gold medal from the National Wine Awards
of Canada that is something you can bank
on